# 20221110

卧推卡70kg了，决定不xjbl了

研究了一天5/3/1，决定尝试2\*leader+1\*anchor

**leader**: 5's pro + 5\*5 FSL

**anchor**: 3/5/1 with pr’s on week 1 and 3 + 3\*5 FSL

[reference](https://liftvault.com/resources/531-glossary/)

详细内容参考《5/3/1 Forever》

> ### 5/3/1
> **week1**:65%x5, 75%x5, 85%x5+\
**week2**:70%x3, 80%x3, 90%x3+\
**week3**:75%x5, 85%x3, 95%x1+
> ### tm (training max)
> A training max is the value against which you program your loads. It is usually 80% to 90% of your true one rep max when starting out and can evolve over time as you run multiple cycles of 5/3/1.
> ### anchor and leader
> Anchor cycles use higher intensities on the main lifts, less supplemental work, and more assistance volume (50 to 100 reps per assistance exercise).\
Leader cycles uses lower intensities on the main lifts with higher volume supplemental work and less assistance volume (25 to 50 reps per assistance exercise).
> ### 5's pro
> 5’s Pro (aka 5’s progression) is a rep scheme used in the 5/3/1 training program. This rep scheme calls for performing 5 reps for all three working sets each week of a given training cycle.
> ### fsl
> First Set Last (FSL) is a rep scheme for supplemental work within the 5/3/1 programming framework. It programs the percentage of a lifter’s training max used for their first 5/3/1 working set for 5 sets of 5 reps (5×5).
> ### 3/5/1
> 3/5/1 switches the order of the 3 rep week to first instead of second. Some prefer this method because it follows a medium/light/heavy cadence, allowing the 5 rep week to act as a “mini deload” of sorts before the heaviest week.
> ### pr's (amrap)
> AMRAP means as many reps as possible.\
For example, 85% x 1+ means to lift 85% for as many reps as you can hit with reasonable form.
> ### 7th week protocol
> It is a special deload week that can be a few things: a lighter lifting week, a PR attempt, or a Training Max test.\
For each of these uses, the 7th Week Protocol's general setup and percentages will remain the same. What will change are the reps done. This week will be a reduction in overall volume, no supplemen­tal work is done and limited assistance work (25 to 50 reps per assistance exercise).\
**tm test**:70%x5, 80%x5, 90%x5, 100% (TM) x 3-5\
**deload**:70%x5, 80%x3-5, 90%x1, 100% (TM) x 1\
**pr test**:70%x5, 80%x5, 90%x5, 100% (TM) x PR or a goal


**总体流程**：leader -> increase TM -> leader -> increase TM -> 7th week deload-> Anchor -> increase TM ->7th week TM test

**1rm计算**：WEIGHT X REPS X 0.0333 + WEIGHT = EST 1 REP MAX
